Welcome to the OCI 2024 AI Foundations course. AI will fundamentally reshape work and labor market. Organizations that apply AI to drive growth, manage costs, and deliver greater value to customers will pull ahead. Managers will hire based on AI aptitude. And for many employees, AI will help them break the career ceiling. So I'm really glad that you are here to get skilled on AI. Let's get started.

Before we dive deeper into the course, let us see why AI skills are so important. Recently, Microsoft and LinkedIn surveyed 31,000 people across 31 countries identifying labor and hiring trends from LinkedIn, and they found some interesting trends. The first trend is that employees want AI at work and they won't wait for companies to catch up. 75% of knowledge workers use AI at work today, and 46% of users started using it less than six months ago.

The second trend is that aptitude is taking center stage, and AI is helping many employees break the career ceiling. As you can see here, 66% of the leaders surveyed said they would not hire someone without AI skills, and 71% of the leaders are more likely to hire a less experienced candidate with AI skills than a more experienced candidate without them.

The third trend is that AI is going mainstream, and professionals are skilling up fast. Whether professionals are in a business role, like an account manager or in a software role, like a web developer, or a creative role such as content writer, they are all skilling up fast. Virtually, AI is touching every role, every industry, and every use case imaginable.

Now, with that background, who are we targeting for this particular course? The first target audience for us are cloud engineers and cloud architects, who know cloud but want to ramp up their skills. The second target audience are beginners who have no prior experience with AI or machine learning, but want to learn and get the AI skills. And like we said, this course is for beginners. This is in fact for across every role you could think of. Whether it's a business role, software role, or a creative role, this course is for everyone out there.

So what does the course contain? There are two main domains which are covered in the course. So the first domain is what is we refer to as the AI Stack. And it starts with artificial intelligence, AI, which is the ability of machines to imitate human intelligence. Machine learning is a subset of AI, where algorithms are used to learn from past data and predict outcome on new data or to identify trends from past data.

Then we dive deeper into deep learning, which is a further subset of machine learning, in which algorithms are modeled to learn from complex data using neural networks. And finally, we dive deeper into generative AI, which is a type of AI that can create new content. So we covered the entire AI stack in this course.

And then we covered the Oracle AI stack. Our AI offering is built on our high-performing AI infrastructure and comes with easy integration throughout the Oracle stack. From the data made available for AI from database products such as Oracle Database, Oracle Autonomous Database, and MySQL Heatwave, all the way to SaaS applications such as ERP, HCM, and CX with embedded AI and Gen AI features. The idea is that at Oracle, AI is designed to be a seamless experience, not piecemeal parts or tools that you have to assemble as part of a do-it-yourself project.

So the course consists of seven modules and the first four modules cover the AI stack, including AI, machine learning, deep learning, and gen AI and large language models. At this point, when you complete the first four modules, you will have a very good idea of the AI stack tools, frameworks, methodologies, terminologies used in the AI stack.

And then the remaining three modules in the course focus on the Oracle AI Stack, starting with an overview of what the Oracle AI stack looks like, generative AI services, and then finally we dive deeper into the various Oracle AI services.

Once you complete the course, I highly recommend to take the AI 2024 Foundations Associate exam. This is a certification exam, which is available to you at no cost. It's completely free, and you get several free attempts, as you can see here. And to schedule this exam, it's quite straightforward process. The exam is available in our learning management system called MyLearn. You can click on the exam right from here, Launch Exam. You don't have to register for it and you can take it 24/7 according to your own convenience.

The exam consists of multiple choice questions. It's an hour long, and you have 40 questions to complete. So I highly recommend to not only complete the course and consume the course, but also take the certification exam for free. And once you do that, you can put the credential on your LinkedIn, on your resume, and showcase to your current and potential future employers.

We have several course instructors who have deep domain knowledge and experience with AI. So we have Hemant Gahankari, Himanshu Raj, Wes Prichard, Nick Commisso, and myself. I'm one of the instructors for this course.

How do you get the most out of this course? The first thing is you should have a study plan and have some structure around how much time are you going to spend on a daily basis or a weekly basis towards completing this course. Then you can also sign up for an Oracle Cloud Free Tier account to get some hands on experience. Though it is not mandatory and it's not necessary to have hands-on experience, particularly for the exam, but it's always a good idea to get some hands-on experience to understand and see how these services really work in action.

As you are going through the course, you should take ample notes. We also have transcripts available in 29 languages, so you can download those transcripts and make use of them. But you can also take notes, complete all the skill checks as part of that module. And then finally, review exam prep lesson and take the practice exam before you take the final certification exam.

At any point in time, if you have a specific question about the course material or need extra help, fill out our Ask Your Instructor form and our expert instructors will get back to you within a few hours. We also want you to get the most out of your learning experience, which is why we have created this community space, where you can connect with other learners and subject matter experts. If you have any questions or want to start a discussion on a particular topic, this is the place to do it.

Please also provide us feedback. This is the only way for us to figure out what is working, what is not working, so give a sample feedback. And also you can rate the course, all the way from 1 to 5. And we look at these ratings, and then we do course correction from time to time. And that's it. Keep up the excellent work. I will see you at the next milestone in your AI journey. Good luck and thank you. 
