So what is artificial intelligence? Well, the ability of machines to imitate the cognitive abilities and problem-solving capabilities of human intelligence can be classified as Artificial Intelligence, or AI. So what capabilities or abilities are we referring to? Well, let's take a look.

Human intelligence is the intellectual capability of humans that allows us to learn new skills through observation and mental digestion, to think through and understand abstract concepts and apply reasoning, to communicate using a language and understand the nonverbal cues, such as facial recognition, tone variation, and body language. You can handle objections in real time, even in a complex setting. You can plan for short and long-term situations or projects. And of course, you can create music and art or invent something new like an original idea.

If you can replicate any of these human capabilities in machines, this is Artificial General Intelligence or AGI. So in other words, AGI can mimic human sensory and motor skills, performance, learning, and intelligence, and use these abilities to carry out complicated tasks without human intervention. When we apply AGI to solve problems with specific and narrow objectives, we call it Artificial Intelligence, or AI. So let's look at some examples.

AI is all around us. And you've probably interacted with AI even if you didn't realize it. Some examples of AI can be viewing an image or an object and identifying if that is an Apple or an orange. It could be examining an email and classifying it spam or not. It could be writing computer language code or predicting the price of an older car. So let's get into some more specifics of AI tasks in the nature of related data.

Machine learning, deep learning, and data science are all associated with AI, and it can be confusing to distinguish. So let's look at why we need AI and how it's important. AI is vital in today's world. And with the amount of data that's generated, it far exceeds the human ability to absorb, interpret, and actually make decisions based on that data. That's where AI comes in handy by enhancing the speed and effectiveness of human efforts.

So here are two major reasons why we need AI. Number one, we want to eliminate or reduce the amount of routine tasks. And businesses have a lot of routine tasks that need to be done in large numbers. So things like approving a credit card or a bank loan, processing an insurance claim, recommending products to customers are just some example of routine tasks that can be handled.

And second, we as humans need a smart friend, too, who can create stories and poems, designs, create code and music, and have humor just like us. So let's break it down further to explore some more benefits. Here are some AI domains and their examples.

We have language for language translation, vision like image classification, speech like text-to-speech, product recommendations that can help you cross sell products, anomaly detection, like detecting fraudulent transactions, learning by reward like self-driven cars. You have forecasting with weather forecasting and, of course, generating content like image from text. So we're going to be exploring some of these further in the next lesson. Thank you. 