# Introduction to Machine Learning
Hello and welcome to this module on machine learning foundations. In this lesson, we will learn what is machine learning, how does it work. And we will also discuss a few examples of machine learning, as well. So let's begin.

Machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence that focuses on creating computer systems that can learn and predict outcomes from given examples without being explicitly programmed. It is powered by algorithms that incorporate intelligence into machines by automatically learning from a set of examples, usually provided as data.

Let us explore a few examples of machine learning to see what it can do for us. Machine learning is used by all of us in our day-to-day life. When we shop online, we get product recommendations based on our preferences and our shopping history. This is powered by machine learning.

We are notified about movies recommendations on Netflix based on our viewing history and choices of other similar viewers. This, too, is driven by machine learning. While browsing emails, we are warned of a spam mail because machine learning classifies whether the mail is spam or not based on its content.

In the increasingly popular self-driving cars, machine learning is responsible for taking the car to its destination. Let us see how machine learning works. Let us say we have a computer, and we need to teach the computer to differentiate between a cat and a dog. We do this by describing features of a cat or a dog.

Dogs and cats have distinguishing features, for example, the body color, texture, eye color, or some of the defining features which can be used to differentiate a cat from a dog. These are collectively called as input data. We also provide a corresponding output, which is called as a label, which can be a dog or a cat. In this case.

By describing a specific set of features, we can see that it is a cat or a dog. Machine learning model is first trained with the data set. Training data set consists of a set of features and output labels and is given as an input to the machine learning model.

During the process of training, machine learning model learns the relation between input features and corresponding output labels from the provided data. Once the model learns from the data, we have a trained model.

Once the model is trained, it can be used for inference. Inference is a process of getting a prediction by giving a data point. In this example, we input features of a cat or a dog, and the trained model predicts the output that is a cat or a dog label.

The types of machine learning models depend on whether we have a labeled output or not. In general, there are three types of machine learning approaches.

In supervised machine learning, labeled data is used to train the model. Model learns the relation between features and labels. Unsupervised learning is generally used to understand relationships within a data set. Labels are not used or are not available. Reinforcement learning uses algorithms that learn from outcomes to make decisions or choices. Let us talk about some real examples of machine learning.

Some of the popular applications of supervised machine learning are disease detection, weather forecasting, stock price prediction, spam detection, and credit scoring. For example, in disease detection, the patient data is input to a machine learning model, and machine learning model predicts if a patient is suffering from a disease or not.

For unsupervised machine learning, some of the most common real time applications are to detect fraudulent transactions, customer segmentation, outlier detection, and targeted marketing campaigns. So for example, given the transaction data, we can look for patterns that lead to fraudulent transactions.

Most popular among reinforcement learning applications are automated robots, autonomous driving cars, and playing games. We will explore how supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement machine learning works in the following lessons. Thanks for watching. 